README.md, before:

# nosql-challenge


This ReadMe serves to:
   1. Certify that this work is my own,
   2. Specify code source and its location in my 'sqlalchemy-challenge' repository,
   3. Clarify the reason for the assignment,

1. 
My name is Brittney Watts, and I am in the UNCC/EdX Data Analytics Bootcamp. Currently, we 
are working on Module 10 of our exploration into the SQLAlchemy ORM, Flask, and APIs.

2. 
The source code is my interpretation of the information we have learned in class with some debugging help from forums, and here
is a breakdown of the locations of each element of my assignment:

    sqlalchemy-challenge
        SurfsUp
            Resources
                app.py
                hawaii.sqlite
                hawaii_measurements.csv
                hawaii_stations.csv
            climate_starter.ipynb
         README.md

3. 
This assignment serves to track my understanding of the SQLAlchemy ORM, data exploration, Flask, and SQLite.

SQLAlchemy Challenge:
   My task was to read the data from the hawaii.sqlite file and perform queries on the datasets! In climate_starter.ipynb, we made graphs base on our queries to analyze our retrieved data. In app.py, I designed a Flask API containing routes with different functions. These functions returned data based on the queries made within them. 
   The hawaii.sqlite file contained measurement and station data for different weather stations in Hawaii for a certain collection of dates.  
   
   My Steps: 

    - First, I had to connect to the SQLite database, reflect the tables into classes, save the references to the classes, and link python to the database all using SQLAlchemy.

    - PART 1: ANALYZE AND EXPLORE THE CLIMATE DATA
        - Precipitation Analysis
            - Find the most recent date in the dataset, query the previous 12 months of data, load the results for the "date" and "prcp" into a Pandas DataFrame, sort the values by date, and plot the results into a bar graph using the "plot" method.
            - Print the summary statistics for the precipitation data using Pandas.
        - Station Analysis
            - Query the total number of stations, design a query to find the most active stations and list them in order taking note of the most active station overall, and design a query that calculates the max, min, and avg temperatures for that station.
            - Design a query to get the temperature information for the last 12 months for the most active station, and plot the results as a histogram with 12 bins for each month.
    
    - PART 2: DESIGN THE CLIMATE APP
        - Create a route for the homepage that lists all of the available routes.
        - Create a route that queries the last 12 months of data for all stations, their dates, and their precipitation values and return the JSON representation of that dictionary.
        - Create a stations route that just returns a list of stations in the dataset.
        - Create a route that queries the dates and temperature observations of the most active station for the previous year of data and return is as a JSON list.
        - Create two routes that return the min, max, and avg temperature for a specified date range. For the specified start date, calculate the stats for all dates greater than the date specified. For the specified start and end date, calculate the statistics from the start date to the end date inclusively. 


      
THANK YOU!!!!!

Commit message:

imported the data and almost finished the part 1 and 2. I kept updating the data wrong so this will store it in github.

README.md, after:

# nosql-challenge


This ReadMe serves to:
   1. Certify that this work is my own,
   2. Specify code source and its location in my 'nosql-challenge' repository,
   3. Clarify the reason for the assignment,

1. 
My name is Brittney Watts, and I am in the UNCC/EdX Data Analytics Bootcamp. Currently, we 
are working on Module 10 of our exploration into the NoSQL programming langauge and MongoDB.

2. 
The source code is my interpretation of the information we have learned in class with some debugging help from forums, and here
is a breakdown of the locations of each element of my assignment:

    nosql-challenge
        __MACOSX
        Establishments Challenge
            Resources
                establishments.json
            NoSQL_analysis_starter.ipynb
            NoSQL_setup_starter.ipynb
         README.md

3. 
This assignment serves to track my understanding of the NoSQL language and manipulating data with MongoDB.

NoSQL Challenge:
   My task was to read the data from the "establishments.json" file and perform queries on the dataset! For parts 1 and 2, we set up the database to be used in MongoDB and edit the data in preparation for an exploratory analysis. In this analysis, we pull data from the table to analyze and make conlusions on which restaurants in the dataset to eat from. 
   The establishments.json file lists Businesses, their addresses, their websites, and other information. 
   
   My Steps: 

    - First, I had to connect to the SQLite database, reflect the tables into classes, save the references to the classes, and link python to the database all using SQLAlchemy.

    - PART 1: DATABASE AND JUPYTER NOTEBOOK SET UP
        - Using NoSQL_setup_starter.ipynb, I imported the data from the terminal, named a database and its collection. I made sure to copy the text I used for the import statement into the notebook as a markdown cell.
        - Import the libraries, create an instance of MongoClient.
        - Listed the databases, collection, and a document in MongoDB to confirm the creation of the 'uk_food' database, 'establishments' collection, and properly loaded documents.
        - Lastly, I assigned the collection to a variable to use later.

    - PART 2: UPDATE THE DATABASE
        - Add data for a Halal Restaurant to the database.
        - Find the BusinessTypeID and update the new restaurant with the information.
        - Check how many documents contain the Dover Local Authority and remove them. Check the number of documents so we know it's been deleted.
        - Use update_many to convert latitute and longitude to decimal numbers and the RatingValue to integers because they are in the database as strings.
    
    - PART 3: EXPLORATORY ANALYSIS
        - Using NoSQL_analysis_starter.ipynb, this part of the challenge explores the database and answers questiong about the establishments.
        - Display the number of documents in the result and convert the result to a Pandas DataFrame then display the first 10 rows.
        - Find the establishments that have a hygiene score equal to 20, which establishments in London that have a RatingValue greater than or equal to 4, find the top 5 establisments with a RatingValue of 5 (sorted by the lowest hygiene score, newarest to the new restaurant "Penang Flavors"?)
        - Find how many establishments in each Local Authority area have a hygiene score of 0 and sort the results from highest to lowest then print the top ten local authority areas.

      
THANK YOU!!!!!
